 
"new" keyword
Can use it to create an array constructor. 

"static" keyword/function within a class

what is object-oriented programming

syntactical sugar: syntax that is easier to read or express. It makes the language "sweeter" for human use.

what do we mean when we "wind/unwind up the callstack"?

JS date objects/methods

What does "cached" mean

What does "parsing" mean: breaking a sentence, block of code, etc. down into its components to analyze it/describe their syntactic roles

.innerHTML property defines the HTML content

document.write()

window.alert()
window.print()

JS statements are composed of: values, operators, expressions, keywords, comments

JS ignores white spaces (cause it compiles it and erases any spaces?)

keywords are reserved words

2 kinds of values: fixed (literals) and variables. 

JS uses the Unicode character set. Unicode covers almost all characters, punctuations, and symbols in the world.

Can use the one line commenter denoter "//" to "comment out" code for testing purposes 

It's best to declare relevant variables at the beginning of a script 

If you add a number and a string, it evaluates to a string

What is a fetch request? It is promised-based. It is a modern way to Ajax without helper libraries like jQuery or Axios

What is interpolation?

operator precedence: if we have: var x = 100 + 50 * 3; we perform the multiplication first, just as in normal math. Multiplication and division have higher precedence than addition/subtraction, but this can be changed by using parentheses: var x = (100 + 50) * 3; operation inside () is computed first (they are fully computed). When many operations have the same precedence (ex. addition and subtraction), they're computed from left to right. 

Assignment operators: +=, -=, *=, /=, and %=

JS has only one type of numbers, they can be written with/without decimal point. Extra large/small numbers can be written with e (scientific) notation

variable w/ no value is undefined. The data type is also "undefined". Can empty any variable by reassigning the value to undefined

-Empty value, like an empty string, has both a legal value and a type

-Null is "nothing", it's something that doesn't exist. Oddly, in JS, data type of null is an object, and not "null", kind of a weird bug. Can empty an object by setting it to null, or undefined

-Difference b/w null/undefined: equal in value, but different in type... null == undefined is true, but null === undefined is false.

typeof can return primitive data types of: string, number, boolean, undefined. Can return 2 complex types: function, object (returns objects for objects, arrays, and null).

A JS function is same as "procedure" or "subroutine" 

Things that can call a function: when an event occurs, when called in code, automatically (self-invoked).

Console.log is an extremely useful tool a a dev's toolkit. Common places to insert logs are before a task begins and after it ends, which allows us to see stuff more clearly. Console.log can be invaluable during dev phase of a project.

"do" keyword 

A declaration is a type of programming statement that tells the compiler that we are creating a variable or object (declaration can also be known as instantiation?)

What does enumerable mean in JS?

What does iterable mean in JS?

Objects, variables, etc.:
	In java-script , every variable , every class you define when instantiated is an instance of the class Object itself. So, in nutshell , a variable is child of class object just like an object of user-defined class. A variable represents a storage location in memory. It represents the value contained in it. You can assign any new value to variable. An object is a real entity which has properties and methods. A variable may contain the reference to an Object.

What does "parse" mean

If I am creating a function that expects an array as an argument, can I not write "function functionName([paramArray]) {}"?

Jacob Questions:
-How far behind am I now? How many checkpoints per week would I need to do this week and next to try to catch up by then?
A: 5-6 checkpoints/week

-Test is at 2, what should I practice coding/problem solving till then? Most important thing to study..?
A: 

-Does the assessment try to cover material from the chapters, or could it be extra material not mentioned?
A: 

-If I am creating a function that expects an array as an argument, can I not write "function functionName([paramArray]) {}"?
A: Yes, exactly. Some languages do that, but JS cause it's loosely typed doesn't matter 

-What does enumerable mean in JS?  -What does iterable mean in JS?
A: They are kind of interchangeable. Enumerable functions are iterating over a list. The things that's being iterated on is enumerable

-what do we mean when we "wind/unwind up the callstack"?
A: 



KNOW: arrays, loops, conditionals, functions, basic objects


